Add Best Practice: Declare Repositories in Settings (#32882)
gradle/gradle: platforms/documentation/docs/src/docs/userguide/best-practices/bp_dependencies.adoc

[[best_practices_for_dependencies]]
= Best Practices for Dependencies

[[set_up_repositories_in_settings]]
== Set up your dependency repositories in `settings.gradle.kts`

Declare your repositories for your plugins and dependencies in `settings.gradle.kts`

=== Explanation

> Using `settings.gradle.kts` file allows for much clearer structure of what is used within the build and prevents project-level declarations as that often leads to harder to reason behaviors.

Reviewer: I think this could be expanded to include more detail.  I see the reasons as:

1. DRY coding - the declarations in settings are available to all projects, rather than repeating them in each project.
2. Repos declarations in a single place allows you to locate them easier. (Covered)
3. Repos declarations in a single place allows you to _order_ them so that commonly used repos are first, gaining performance.
4. Defining repos in settings better aligns with the conceptual model - repositories aren't really a part of a project's definition.  They are global build logic, so settings is a more appropriate place for them.

I don't know that behaviors are harder to reason about, depending on where you declare repos - what do you mean by this?  Is it related to 3)?

Author: > 3. Repos declarations in a single place allows you to order them so that commonly used repos are first, gaining performance.

I don't quite follow this. You can have identical performance if you declare those repos in build.gradle.kts.

Added the rest of the reasons.

Reviewer: For 3) I was thinking if you used mixed declarations and declare repos A, B in settings and repos C, D in your project then I don't think it's well-defined which repo is checked first.

Author: > For 3) I was thinking if you used mixed declarations and declare repos A, B in settings and repos C, D in your project then I don't think it's well-defined which repo is checked first.

Given that we don't want people to do that, i'd rather not even discuss that. They should use settings.gradle, or if they really want, each build.gradle, but not both.

[[best_practices_for_dependencies]]
= Best Practices for Dependencies

[[set_up_repositories_in_settings]]
== Set up your dependency repositories in `settings.gradle.kts`

> Declare your repositories for your plugins and dependencies in `settings.gradle.kts`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Declare your repositories for your plugins and dependencies in `settings.gradle.kts`.
```

Author: Done

=== Explanation

> Using `settings.gradle.kts` file to declare repositories has several benefits:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Using `settings.gradle.kts` file to declare repositories has several benefits:

```

Author: Done

>  - Avoids repetition. Declarations in a single place apply to all projects, rather than having to repeat it in each project's `build.gradle.kts`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - Avoids repetition: Centralizing repository declarations eliminates the need to repeat them in each project's `build.gradle.kts`.
```

Author: Done

>  - Makes it easier to debug issues. Ensures every project dependency resolution uses the same repositories in a consistent order.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - Improves debuggability: Ensures all projects resolve dependencies from the same repositories, in a consistent order.
```

Author: Done

>  - Better aligns with the conceptual model of the build structure. Repositories are not part of project definition, they are part of global build logic, so settings in a more appropriate place for them.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - Matches the build model: Repositories are not part of the project definition; they are part of global build logic, so settings is a more appropriate place for them.
```

Author: Done

> Note that while https://github.com/gradle/gradle/issues/32443[`dependencyResolutionManagement.repositories` is an incubating API], it is the preferred way of declaring repositories.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
NOTE: While https://github.com/gradle/gradle/issues/32443[`dependencyResolutionManagement.repositories` is an incubating API], it is the preferred way of declaring repositories.
```

[[best_practices_for_dependencies]]
= Best Practices for Dependencies

[[set_up_repositories_in_settings]]
== Set up your dependency repositories in `settings.gradle.kts`

Declare your repositories for your plugins and dependencies in `settings.gradle.kts`.

=== Explanation

Using `settings.gradle.kts` file to declare repositories has several benefits:

 - Avoids repetition: Centralizing repository declarations eliminates the need to repeat them in each project's `build.gradle.kts`.

>  - Improves debuggability: Ensures all projects resolve dependencies resolution from the same repositories, in a consistent order.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Improves debuggability: Ensures all projects resolve dependencies during resolution from the same repositories, in a consistent order.
```

Author: Done.

 - Matches the build model: Repositories are not part of the project definition; they are part of global build logic, so settings is a more appropriate place for them.

> Note: While https://github.com/gradle/gradle/issues/32443[`dependencyResolutionManagement.repositories` is an incubating API], it is the preferred way of declaring repositories.

Author: ![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/34b7f1d9-6d82-4e8b-8c45-dfe3e499de9b)

What's wrong with it? It seems to work just fine in local run

> Note: While https://github.com/gradle/gradle/issues/32443[`dependencyResolutionManagement.repositories` is an incubating API], it is the preferred way of declaring repositories.

Reviewer: My mistake, I misread this as an internal link.
